.\" yo there.
.TH FLOWREPLAY 1  "29 May 2003"
.SH NAME
flowreplay \- replay TCP/UDP flows from a pcap capture file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B flowreplay\
[
.B \-h
]
.B \-i
.I pcapfile
[
.B \-m
.I send | wait | bytes
] [
.B \-t targetip
] [
.B \-p
.I proto/port
] [
.B \-V
] [
.B \-w
.I sec.usec
] 
.br
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I Flowreplay
is a tool for replaying client traffic to a server from files saved with
\fItcpdump(8)\fP.
.LP
The basic operation of
.I flowreplay
is to connect to server(s) via the TCP/UDP protocols captured in the pcap file
and replay the client side of the connection to the server.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
.B \-h
Help.
.TP
.B \-i
Input file (pcap format)
.TP
.B \-m
Mode to use to know when the server is done sending.  Options are 'send'
as fast as you can, 'wait' for -w sec.usec, and send after recieving the
previously captured number of 'bytes' from the server.
.TP
.B \-t
The server to connect to in lieu of the IP addresses in the pcap file.
.TP
.B \-p
The protocol and/or port to limit sending traffic on.  Valid protocols are:
TCP and UDP; and any port between 0 and 65535.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version info and exit.
.TP
.B \-w
The number of seconds and micro-seconds represented as a float to wait 
for the server to finish sending before sending more data.  Must be used
with "-m wait".
.TP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tcpdump(8), tcpreplay(8), capinfo(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Aaron Turner <aturner [at] pobox [dot] com>
.SH "AVAILABILITY"
.LP
The current version is packaged with tcpreplay which is available via HTTP:
.LP
.RS
.I http://tcpreplay.sourceforge.net/
.RE
.SH BUGS
Probably a lot.  Some key features, such as waiting for the server to
respond are not implimented yet.  Considered alpha quality code right now.
.LP
